# Project-Machine-Learning

Overview of the Project

The Car price dataset is a collection of data on various cars ,including thier prices ,features and specifications. The dataset is commonly used for regression tasks such as predicting car prices based on their features. The dataset contains 205 rows and 26 columns.The dataset includes the features Car_Id , carname ,enginesize ,horsepower ,Mileage etc and The target variable of this dataset is price of the car. Goals and objectives are to develop a predictive model that can accurately forecast car prices ,Identify the most impotant features that affect car prices and also to evaluate the performance of different machine learning algorithm. 

As a initial part of analysis , Import necessary libraries like Pandas,Numpy ,Matplotlib,Searborn and other libraries from sklearn. Load the dataset to a pandas dataframe .Displayed the features of the dataset by df.info and using df.describe to show statistical analysis of the dataset.Ensuring data consistency and integrity by checking missing and any duplicated values.In this dataset, No any duplicates found and also no missing values to handle. 

After the Initial part of preprocessing, The statistical techniques like univariate , bivariate and multivariate analysis were done to analyse and understand the relationship between variables.Univariate analysis to understand the distribution of numerical columns ,Bivariate analysis helps to analyse relationship between features like Horse power and price Multivariate helps to analyse multiple featues .These analysis helps to visualise about the relationship between the two features and multiple features using histograms,heatmap , boxplot for finding outlier , scatterplot and pairplot. 
After this ,the data were cleaned by Handling the outliers using zscore method .And also by feature encoding using Label Encoder to convert categorical features to numerical features and Feature scaling were done except column price by using Standard Scaler to scale the data.

After this the splitting of data to features and target variable as X and Y. Using Train test split to train the model and predict on test data. After the train test split ,Implement different regression algorithms such as linear regression,DecisionTreeRegressor Random Forest Regressor,Gradient boosting regressor and Support vector regressor.These algorithm were implemented using the respective class of each model from sklean. Train the model of the data and predict on test data .These regression model predicts output variable based on one or more predictor variables.

After implementation of regression model the evaluation of model were done using evaluation metrics such as Rsquared, Mean square error and Absolute error .Comparing all model performace based on this evaluation metrics Gradient boosting Regressor shows the best model performance because it has the highest R squared value indicating that it explains the most variance in the target variable and lowest MSE indicating it has the smallest difference between actual and predicted value and the Lowest MAE is for random forest regressor.By concluding this Gradient boosting is reflects as the best model.

After Evaluation process feature selection were done to identify significant variables affecting car prices.By calculating correlation between features and target variable price and find the correlation matrix by displaying the correlation table and also visualized the positive correlated features by Plotting heatmap .It helps to know the features which are highly correlated, moderately correlated and shows weak correlation.The features such as enginesize,horsepower,Curbweight and carwidth are are strongly correlated with price. 

After the feature selection Hyperparameter tuning were done to improve the machine learning model performance on the specific task.After hyperparameter tuning slight variations observed in regression models such random forest regressor and gradient boosting regressor.Support vector regressor shows more variations and significant improvement in Rsquared value and decrease in MSE and MAE values .By concluding ,Support vector regessor model performance has increased.

This project demonstrates the use of machine learning algorithm to predict car prices based on various features. We explored different regression algorithm.After hyperparameter tuning the support vector regressor model achieved the best performance.The analysis revealed that the enginesize ,horsepower,Mileage are the significant variable affecting car prices These findings can be useful for car buyers and sellers to make informed decisions.

